Welcome back let's convert our stack data structure to use arrays and this is going to be fairly simple.
All we're going to do is remove all of this in the constructor and have this stored array equal to an
empty array.
We don't need the length property because that comes built in with arrays and Javascript.
Obviously this may be different for different programming languages but for now we have this available
to us in our language that we're using right now.
So there we have it.
That's our constructor.
What about peak oil.
Peak simply means that we want to see the very end of the array.
Remember with stack it's last in first out.
So when we do a peak we want to see the very top thing.
The latest thing that we've added in our case we can just simply say this dot array and we're going
to access that array with BRAC and notation and it's going to say this dot array dot lenth which is
the rent length of the array minus one because we do minus one because our index starts from zero to
1 versus the length that starts from 1 to 2.
That's it.
We have peak implemented.
Let's just comment this out and make sure that peak works from this we get undefined.
Well because there's nothing in the array and we can probably give better errors if we wanted to hear.
But for now I think this is fine.
What about push well worth push.
We get to delete all this code and simply say this dot array dot push value.
How nice is that.
Now it is nice and clean comes pre-built with the race.
We can just use push.
So if I do my stack push and I click run while peek here is giving me Google but legist run push only
I get a stack that has an array with Google in it.
If I push to you Dammy I've added you Dammy if I do push this cord I've added this quarter and if I
do peek here I should get Dischord back because it's the latest entry.
There you go.
How simple is that.
That means that pop is also going to be very simple right.
Absolutely feels good deleting code doesn't it.
What we do is this dot array dot the pop that comes already in javascript.
We can't just return this if we want.
If I click run but will have to run the pop here let's run.
Pop which removes discord from the list.
If I run pop again I get Google and if I pop this and I click run we have an empty array like that.
Nice and simple.
We to have to use the node class and that's pretty nice right.
So you can just use arrays as stacks quite easily.
And we've already discussed the pros and cons in using linked lists versus erase one of the nice things
about using an array is while arrays at least in javascript already act like stacks and it makes things
very simple for us but enough about stacks.
Let's implement our own.
Q This time around I'll see in the next one.